---
author: Georg Makowski
date: "2021-09-07T21:33:03+02:00"
description: What's special about this theme?
menu:
  doc:
    name: Perplex
    parent: intro
    pre: dashboard
subtitle: false
title: Perplex
weight: 11
categories: [design, getting started]
tags: [fluid responsive]
---

The theme layout adapts responsively and fluidly to modern screens. It’s designed for optimal legibility down to a view-port of {$360px} width.
{.p-first} <!--more-->

Perplex is built based on the [IBM Plex][plex] font family{^\*} and is best suited for technical content with mixed sections of text, figures, and code. The layout is vertically aligned to a **baseline grid**[^1] to introduce a comfortable reading rhythm. Horizontally it’s divided into evenly spaced columns—their number grows with the screen width.

{{< mnote down=12 star=1 >}}
The **Plex** font family includes fonts for oriental languages written from right to left and for Asian sign languages (some still projected). So far, Perplex can't adapt to their needs, because I'm not acquainted with their layout habits.
{{< /mnote >}}

On larger screens (view-port &ge; {$600px}) the [responsive design][rd] is combined with [view-port-sized design][ptres]—a.k.a. fluid typography[^2]. Hence, the layout remains consistent between breakpoints. At the maximum font size, the layout becomes static and centered on wide screens. The whole layout responds to the zoom-setting of browsers or mobile devices when one of its four major breakpoints is reached. Images are processed for an optimal resolution on every screen size.

Perplex styles the HTML generated by Hugo from Markdown content with YAML front-matter data through templates. This documentation is also a continuous visual test for the style sheet and the templates.

The modern stylesheet (CSS grid, flex, variables, and calculations) works on browsers used by around 95\% of the users in the world (as accounted by [Can I Use](https://caniuse.com)).

{{< mnote up=8 >}}
The deprecated Internet Explorer and Opera Mini are not supported.
{{< /mnote >}}

## Based on Standardized Markdown

Markdown is simple and simply great. It allows authors to structure their content with a few intuitive markup characters in plain text files. These structured files can be rendered into reliable and clean code.

Hugo’s default renderer [Goldmark][gmark] translates [CommonMark][cmark] Markdown and some extensions adopted from [PHP Markdown Extra][phpmex] and [**G**itHub **f**lavored **M**arkdown][gfmspec] (GFM).

Because Markdown is simple, the resulting HTML also is. Perplex offers many style attributes to enhance the layout and a few Hugo shortcodes to utilize more complex elements.

## Alternative styling and additional elements

[Attributes](/doc/attribute)
: are HTML attributes in single curly braces placed after Markdown elements. They are introduced on the pages of the specific element, whose appearance they alter, or in the chapter [Attributes](/doc/attribute) if they are of general use.

[Replacements](/doc/replace)
: are shorthands in single curly braces. They refer to the few lesser important inline HTML elements, which have no counterpart in Hugo’s Markdown renderer Goldmark. They are a simple workaround to avoid raw HTML in Markdown.

[Shortcodes](/doc/shortcode)
: are enclosed in two curly braces and angle brackets — like `{{</* shortcode */>}}`. They can take input parameters and allow to extend Markdown with arbitrary HTML structures. They are powerful but tend to get complicated quickly. Perplex ships with some shortcodes, but only for those cases, where a replacement or an attribute can’t do the job. If Hugo already provides a built-in shortcode, its established syntax is preserved as good as possible.
{.dl-loose}

## Structured by YAML

The complete navigation and all other page layout elements besides the content are controlled by meta-data parameters consisting of key-value pairs. This documentation relies on [**Y**AML **A**in’t **M**arkup **L**anguage (**YAML**)](https://yaml.org) to format the data, because it’s well-known and has the widest support.

{{< mnote up=14 >}}
Hugo also processes meta-data formatted by TOML and JSON and converts front-matter data between these formats. Because all data processing is done by Hugo, the theme works with all of them. But the included archetypes – the skeleton templates for new files – are written in YAML.
{{< /mnote >}}

Site parameters
: for every Hugo project are contained in the site-wide [configuration][conf].

Page parameters
: are set directly in the front-matter of the Markdown files. Every file starts with a YAML block, which is enclosed by three dashes `---`.
{.dl-loose}

Despite its successful efforts to make data formatting as simple as possible, YAML still needs to adhere to strict grammar. It sometimes depends on the indentation of the keys and this can be a source of frustrating errors. Perplex provides templates for Hugo’s [`new` command][new] to help with that. For every type of content, we can easily begin with working front-matter blocks. All keys essential for Perplex are present and many of their values are filled with some reasonable auto-generated parameters or placeholders. Front-matter for a documentation page for example contains usually around 15--20 entries, and you probably have to change or add only a few of them in the beginning.

## In case of problems {#trouble}

There are **two** repositories --- one for the theme itself and one for the documentation.

### Having trouble with the Theme?

When you encounter a bug in the layout or miss some functionality, please visit the [theme repository][theme]. Have a look at the already existing [issues][issue], please. If your problem or proposal is not already listed, I’m grateful for your new issue and happy to discuss it there. Should you like to improve the functionality of Perplex, you are very welcome.

### Having trouble with the Documentation?

When you miss some explanation or find a misleading one, please go to the [documentation repository][doc]. Again, have a look at already existing [issues][docissue], please. If you can’t find your problem, I’m thankful for your new issue and will improve the documentation as soon as possible.

Should you stumble upon bad English, typos, or wrong phrases, please excuse me. I’m not a native English speaker, corrections are very welcome. You may submit a pull request immediately.  

[^1]: The concept for a baseline grid has been inspired by [Plumber][plumber]. The vertical alignment is sometimes a few pixels off --- despite precise calculations. This may be noticeable on screens with a low pixel density --- usually desktop screens. All browser engines seem to face an inevitable trade-off between the quality of font rendering and the precision of line height.

[^2]: The term _fluid typography_ is falling a bit short here. Perplex is using a **responsive fluid design**, the whole layout can adapt to the width of the browser window (Also see [this posting](/blog/accessibility-of-fluid-typography)).

[plex]: https://ibm.com/plex
[rd]: https://alistapart.com/article/responsive-web-design
[ptres]: https://practicaltypography.com/responsive-web-design.html
[theme]: https://github.com/bowman2001/perplex
[issue]: https://github.com/bowman2001/perplex/issues
[doc]: https://github.com/bowman2001/perplexdoc
[docissue]: https://github.com/bowman2001/perplexdoc/issues
[cmark]: https://commonmark.org "CommonMark project site"
[gmark]: https://github.com/yuin/goldmark "Goldmark repository"
[phpmex]: https://michelf.ca/projects/php-markdown/extra/ "PHP Markdown Extra site"
[gfmspec]: https://github.github.com/gfm "GitHub Flavored Markdown Specification"
[plumber]: https://jamonserrano.github.io/plumber-sass
[conf]: /doc/appendix/config/configyaml
[new]: /doc/intro/workflow/local-server#your-first-content
