---
author: Georg Makowski
date: "2021-09-07T21:33:03+02:00"
description: What's special about this theme?
featImg: hal-gatewood-tZc3vjPCk-Q-unsplash.jpg
menu:
  doc:
    name: Perplex
    parent: intro
    pre: dashboard
subtitle: false
title: Perplex
weight: 7
---

The theme adapts responsively and fluid to modern screens. It’s designed for optimal legibility down to a view-port of {$360px} width.
{.p-first} <!--more-->

Perplex has been build on the basis of the [IBM Plex][plex] font family and is best suited for technical content with mixed sections of text and code. The layout is vertically aligned to a _baseline grid_[^1] to introduce a comfortable rhythm. Horizontally it’s divided into evenly spaced columns — their number grows with the screen width.

{{< mnote up=5 >}}
The **Plex** font family includes fonts for oriental languages written from right to left and for asian sign languages (some projected). So far, Perplex can't adapt to their needs, because I'm not acquainted with their layout habits.
{{< /mnote >}}

On larger screens (view-port &ge; {$600px}) the [responsive design][rd] is combined with [view-port-sized design][ptres]—a.k.a. fluid typography[^2]. Hence, the layout doesn’t change between breakpoints. When the font-size would get to large on wide screens, the layout is just centered.

Perplex styles the HTML generated by Hugo from Markdown content with YAML front-matter data through templates. This documentation also is a continuous test for the style sheet and the templates.

The stylesheet is intended for recent browsers used by around 95\% of the users in the world (as accounted by [Can I Use](https://caniuse.com)).

{{< mnote up=8 >}}
The deprecated Internet Explorer and Opera Mini are not supported.
{{< /mnote >}}

## Based on Standardized Markdown

Markdown is simple and simply great. It allows authors to structure their content with a few intuitive markup characters in plain text files. These structured files can be rendered into reliable and clean code.

Hugo’s default renderer [Goldmark][gmark] translates [CommonMark][cmark] Markdown and some extensions adopted from [PHP Markdown Extra][phpmex] and [**G**itHub **f**lavored **M**arkdown][gfmspec] (GFM).

Because Markdown is simple, the resulting HTML also is. Sometimes we may like to change a style or use more complex elements. Perplex offers solutions for both demands.

## Alternative Styling and additional Elements

[Attributes]({{< relref "attribute" >}})
: are HTML attributes in single curly braces placed after Markdown elements. They are introduced on the pages of the specific element, whose appearance they alter, or in the chapter [Attributes]({{< relref "attribute" >}}) if they are of general use.

[Replacements]({{< relref "replace" >}})
: are shorthands in single curly braces. They refer to the few less important inline HTML elements, which have no counterpart in Hugo’s Markdown.

[Shortcodes]({{< relref "shortcode" >}})
: are enclosed in two curly braces and angle brackets — like `{{</* shortcode */>}}`. They can take input parameters and allow to extend Markdown with arbitrary HTML structures. They are a kind of superpower, but tend to get complicated. Perplex includes some shortcodes, but only in those cases, where a _replacement_ or an _attribute_ is insufficient. If Hugo already provides a built-in shortcode, its established syntax is preserved as good as possible.
{.dl-loose}

## Structured by YAML

The complete navigation and all other page layout elements besides the content are controlled by meta-data parameters. This documentation relies on [**Y**AML **A**in’t **M**arkup **L**anguage](https://yaml.org) to format the data, because it’s well-known and has the widest support.

{{< mnote up=14 >}}
Hugo also processes meta-data formatted by TOML and JSON and allows to convert front-matter data between these formats.
{{< /mnote >}}

Site parameters
: for every Hugo project are contained in the site-wide [configuration][conf].

Page parameters
: are set directly in the Markdown text files. Every file starts with a YAML front-matter block, which is enclosed by three dashes `---`.
{.dl-loose}

Despite its successful efforts to make data-formatting as simple as possible, _YAML_ still needs to adhere to strict rules. This may be frustrating for beginners. Perplex provides skeleton templates via Hugo’s [`new` command][new]. It generates files with a working front-matter block for every type of content. They are filled with some reasonable auto-generated data and placeholders. The front-matter blocks for this documentation contain usually around 15 entries, and you probably have to change or add only a few of them in the beginning.

## In Case of Problems

There are **two** repositories. One for the theme itself and one for the [documentation][doc]. This documentation project ships with a recent copy of the theme to simplify the initial setup, but work on the theme will only progress in its own repository.

### Trouble with the Theme?

When you find a bug in the layout or miss some functionality, please visit the [theme repository][theme]. Have a look first at the already existing [issues][issue]. And please create a new one, if your problem is not already listed. I’m happy to discuss issues there and maybe you like to help optimizing Perplex.

### Trouble with the Documentation?

When you miss some explanation or find a misleading one, please go to the [documentation repository][doc]. Again, have a look at already existing [issues][docissue], please, and create a new one only, if you can’t find yours. I’ll improve the documentation as soon as possible.

Should you stumble upon bad English, typos or wrong phrases, please excuse me. I’m not a native speaker and corrections are very welcome. You may submit a pull request immediately.  

[^1]: The concept for a baseline grid has been inspired by [Plumber][plumber]. The vertical alignment is sometimes a few pixels of --- despite precise calculations. This may be noticeable on screens with a lower pixel density --- usually desktop screens. All browser engines seem to face an inevitable trade-off between the quality of the font rendering and the precision of the line height.

[^2]: The term _fluid typography_ is falling a bit short, because the whole layout adapts to the width of the browser-window (Also see [this posting]({{< relref "accessibility-of-fluid-typography" >}})).

[plumber]: https://jamonserrano.github.io/plumber-sass/
[plex]: https://ibm.com/plex
[rd]: https://alistapart.com/article/responsive-web-design/
[ptres]: https://practicaltypography.com/responsive-web-design.html
[theme]: https://github.com/bowman2001/perplex
[issue]: https://github.com/bowman2001/perplex/issues
[doc]: https://github.com/bowman2001/perplexdoc
[docissue]: https://github.com/bowman2001/perplexdoc/issues
[cmark]: https://commonmark.org "CommonMark project site"
[gmark]: https://github.com/yuin/goldmark "Goldmark repository"
[phpmex]: https://michelf.ca/projects/php-markdown/extra/ "PHP Markdown Extra site"
[gfmspec]: https://github.github.com/gfm "GitHub Flavored Markdown Specification"
[conf]: {{< relref "config.md" >}}
[new]: {{< relref "hugo#first" >}}
