content/doc/basic/code/index.md, before:

---
author: Georg Makowski
date: "2021-03-24T21:23:17+01:00"
description: Content from an editor or a command line
featImg: markus-spiske-1LLh8k2_YFk-unsplash.jpg
menu:
  doc:
    name: Code
    parent: basic
    pre: code
subtitle: false
title: Code
weight: 135
---

The full-width text column offers space for {$80} characters of code in one line. When the marginal column is included in a code block, {$120} fit in.
{.p-first} <!--more-->

Short snippets of code are usually placed **in line** with the normal text. Long pieces of code or entire files are marked as **code blocks**.

Hugo can style and colorize code blocks according to their content with the built-in _Chroma highlighter_ and offers some options to style these blocks.  

## Syntax

### Inline Code

A code snippet is surrounded by single backticks like `` `code` ``.

### Code Block

We have two ways to mark a block as code:

Fenced
: When a block is surrounded by three back-ticks `` ``` `` in the line above and beyond it's a _fenced code block_.

Indented
: A block of text indented by 4 spaces or a tab is also treated as a _code block_.
{.dl-loose}

The _fenced_ version of the CommonMark syntax is preferable for two reasons:

1. The following options are available only for fenced blocks:

   1. Code highlighting

   2. Line numbers

   3. Line markers

   4. Line anchors
   {.col2-l2}

2. There is an overlap with the syntax for the extensions [footnote][ftn] and [definition-list][dl]. When we need subsequent paragraphs there, we need to indent them also by 4 spaces or a tab. If we place an indented code block after a footnote reference or a definition detail, Hugo will treat it as a continuation and not as a code block.

### Highlighting

Many programming or markup languages are highlighted by _Chroma_, when we add their usual file suffixes or another identification code. The Hugo docs include the full list of available [Chroma highlighting languages][hugochroma].

### Additional styling for fenced code blocks

In contrast to other block elements the attributes follow the **first fence** of the code block on the same line after a space, like `` ```md {linenos=true}``.

The options suitable for Perplex are:

`linenos`
: Enables or disables line numbers. They are disabled by default [for this project]({{< relref "markup#40" >}}) --- enable them with `linenos=true`.

`hl_lines`
: Especially highlights some code lines. The lines must be given as a set of numbers or ranges enclosed in square brackets. Every range has to be surrounded additionally by quotes: `hl_lines=[2,"5-7"]`.

`linenostart`
: Lets the line numbers begin with a given number, like `linenostart=23`

`lineanchors`
: Adds a prefix to the anchors on the line numbers. With `lineanchors=prefix` for example the anchors are named `prefix-1`, `prefix-2`, ...
{.dl-loose}

## Layout

gets rendered to:

The HTML tag to mark the beginning of code is `<code>`. And to mark the end we use the corresponding closing tag `</code>`.

### Code Blocks

The first backticks marking a code block may be followed by an abbreviation for the kind of code. Then Hugo is able to highlight and colorize the source code for better legibility. The abbreviations are usually the same or are referring to the common suffix for a file containing that kind of code.

### Fenced

```md
The *HTML* tag at the **beginning** of code is `<code>`.
And to mark the **end** we use the corresponding closing tag `</code>`.
```

### Indented

     The _HTML_ tag at the **beginning** of code is `<code>`.
     And to mark the **end** we use the corresponding closing tag `</code>`.

### Long lines

```go {class=full-width linenos=true}
// NodeRendererFunc is a function that renders a given node.
type NodeRendererFunc func(writer util.BufWriter, source []byte, n ast.Node, entering bool) (ast.WalkStatus, error)

// A NodeRenderer interface offers NodeRendererFuncs.
type NodeRenderer interface {
 // RendererFuncs registers NodeRendererFuncs to given NodeRendererFuncRegisterer.
 RegisterFuncs(NodeRendererFuncRegisterer)
}
```

```md {linenos=true, linenostart=3, hl_lines=["3-4"]}
Normal consecutive text is transformed by the markdown renderer to a paragraph
block.

Every blank line indicates the beginning of a new paragraph.
> A blockquote is marked by a `>` at the beginning of every line
> of the quote. It may contain *text formatting* itself.
```

An unformatted text segment like this one is transformed by the markdown renderer to a paragraph block.

Every _blank_ line indicates the beginning of a _new_ paragraph.
> A blockquote is marked by a `>` at the beginning of every line of the quote. It may contain _text formatting_ itself.

***

### When all lines are no longer than 40 characters

```json
{
  "firstName": "John",
  "lastName": "Smith",
  "age": 35,
  "profession": "Last Man Standing"
}
```

```bash {.lh15}
├── assets
├── config
├── package.json
├── public
├── resources
└── themes
```

[hugochroma]: https://gohugo.io/content-management/syntax-highlighting/#list-of-chroma-highlighting-languages

[ftn]: {{< relref "footnotes#reference" >}}

[dl]: {{< relref "definition-list" >}}

Commit message:

Added some categories and tags to the docs

content/doc/basic/code/index.md, after:

---
author: Georg Makowski
date: "2021-03-24T21:23:17+01:00"
description: Content from an editor or a command line
featImg: markus-spiske-1LLh8k2_YFk-unsplash.jpg
menu:
  doc:
    name: Code
    parent: basic
    pre: code
subtitle: false
title: Code
weight: 135
categories: [Markdown]
tags: [Inline, Block]
---

The full-width text column offers space for {$80} characters of code in one line. When the marginal column is included in a code block, {$120} fit in.
{.p-first} <!--more-->

Short snippets of code are usually placed **in line** with the normal text. Long pieces of code or entire files are marked as **code blocks**.

Hugo can style and colorize code blocks according to their content with the built-in _Chroma highlighter_ and offers some options to style these blocks.  

## Syntax

### Inline Code

A code snippet is surrounded by single backticks like `` `code` ``.

### Code Block

We have two ways to mark a block as code:

Fenced
: When a block is surrounded by three back-ticks `` ``` `` in the line above and beyond it's a _fenced code block_.

Indented
: A block of text indented by 4 spaces or a tab is also treated as a _code block_.
{.dl-loose}

The _fenced_ version of the CommonMark syntax is preferable for two reasons:

1. The following options are available only for fenced blocks:

   1. Code highlighting

   2. Line numbers

   3. Line markers

   4. Line anchors
   {.col2-l2}

2. There is an overlap with the syntax for the extensions [footnote][ftn] and [definition-list][dl]. When we need subsequent paragraphs there, we need to indent them also by 4 spaces or a tab. If we place an indented code block after a footnote reference or a definition detail, Hugo will treat it as a continuation and not as a code block.

### Highlighting

Many programming or markup languages are highlighted by _Chroma_, when we add their usual file suffixes or another identification code. The Hugo docs include the full list of available [Chroma highlighting languages][hugochroma].

### Additional styling for fenced code blocks

In contrast to other block elements the attributes follow the **first fence** of the code block on the same line after a space, like `` ```md {linenos=true}``.

The options suitable for Perplex are:

`linenos`
: Enables or disables line numbers. They are disabled by default [for this project]({{< relref "markup#40" >}}) --- enable them with `linenos=true`.

`hl_lines`
: Especially highlights some code lines. The lines must be given as a set of numbers or ranges enclosed in square brackets. Every range has to be surrounded additionally by quotes: `hl_lines=[2,"5-7"]`.

`linenostart`
: Lets the line numbers begin with a given number, like `linenostart=23`

`lineanchors`
: Adds a prefix to the anchors on the line numbers. With `lineanchors=prefix` for example the anchors are named `prefix-1`, `prefix-2`, ...
{.dl-loose}

## Layout

### Inline

The HTML tag to mark the beginning of code is `<code>`. And to mark the end we use the corresponding closing tag `</code>`. Markdown text surrounded by backticks like `` `text` `` gets enclosed by these tags.

### Block

The first backticks marking a code block may be followed by an abbreviation for the kind of code. Then Hugo is able to highlight and colorize the source code for better legibility. The abbreviations are usually the same or are referring to the common suffix for a file containing that kind of code.

### Fenced

```md
The *HTML* tag at the **beginning** of code is `<code>`.
And to mark the **end** we use the corresponding closing tag `</code>`.
```

### Indented

     The _HTML_ tag at the **beginning** of code is `<code>`.
     And to mark the **end** we use the corresponding closing tag `</code>`.

### Long lines

```go {class=full-width linenos=true}
// NodeRendererFunc is a function that renders a given node.
type NodeRendererFunc func(writer util.BufWriter, source []byte, n ast.Node, entering bool) (ast.WalkStatus, error)

// A NodeRenderer interface offers NodeRendererFuncs.
type NodeRenderer interface {
 // RendererFuncs registers NodeRendererFuncs to given NodeRendererFuncRegisterer.
 RegisterFuncs(NodeRendererFuncRegisterer)
}
```

```md {linenos=true, linenostart=3, hl_lines=["3-4"]}
Normal consecutive text is transformed by the markdown renderer to a paragraph
block.

Every blank line indicates the beginning of a new paragraph.
> A blockquote is marked by a `>` at the beginning of every line
> of the quote. It may contain *text formatting* itself.
```

An unformatted text segment like this one is transformed by the markdown renderer to a paragraph block.

Every _blank_ line indicates the beginning of a _new_ paragraph.
> A blockquote is marked by a `>` at the beginning of every line of the quote. It may contain _text formatting_ itself.

***

### When all lines are no longer than 40 characters

```json
{
  "firstName": "John",
  "lastName": "Smith",
  "age": 35,
  "profession": "Last Man Standing"
}
```

```bash {.lh15}
├── assets
├── config
├── package.json
├── public
├── resources
└── themes
```

[hugochroma]: https://gohugo.io/content-management/syntax-highlighting/#list-of-chroma-highlighting-languages

[ftn]: {{< relref "footnotes#reference" >}}

[dl]: {{< relref "definition-list" >}}
