---
title: Page Navigation
description: Sidebar, Prev/Next and Table of Contents
subtitle: false
date: 2022-01-18T23:25:10+01:00 
menu:
  doc:
    name: Navigation
    parent: page
    pre: switch_right
categories: [Theme]
tags: [Navigation, Page]
weight: 640
---

The navigation between pages and their order is generated from parameters in their front-matter. The Table of Contents is auto-generated by Hugo from our section headings.
{.p-first} <!--more-->

## Ordering parameters

### Date

Blog posts and articles are sorted by date if there is no other parameter available. We can add a weight in the front-matter, if we want them to appear earlier or later in listings like the blog. To fix a posting permanently at the beginning of the blog stream for example we give him and only him the `weight: 1`.

### Weight

The most obvious parameter to order the documentation pages of your site is the page {$weight}. The first page gets the smallest weight number, the second page the next bigger one and so on. 

{{< mnote up=11 >}}
Hugo also allows to apply weights to menu entries and there is even a section weight  (undocumented afaik). Perplex is getting away with the page weight for now.  
{{< /mnote >}}

That’s easy, but we shouldn’t use continuous numbering in a growing project. We may want to add new pages and sections or reorder existing ones. With continuous numbering we would need to change all numbers again and again to achieve that. Better to leave ample space in the beginning.

For this project I was expecting roughly hundred documentation pages and chose to leave hundred weights for every documentation section, which has only around 10 pages. The first section page (the section list page) got `weight: 100`, the first page of the second section `weight: 200` and so on. Works fine for me.

{{< mnote up=14 >}}
Actually, I started the intro section with {$1} --- :wink:. It was a mistake because later I needed the preview section to be the first one before the intro and had to change some weights to make room. Should have started with {$100} like I’m telling you.  
{{< /mnote >}}

There are numerous other options with Hugo to [order pages](https://gohugo.io/templates/lists/#order-content) which are not used by Perplex. The effort to adapt the templates for specific use cases won’t be great.

## Page Navigation

Every content section --- blog, docs, articles --- has its own page navigation at the end of every single page. The Blog Stream is sorted strictly by date and broken down into chunks of several posts, as soon as there are enough.

{{< mnote up=11 >}}
There is no direct page navigation between pages of different sections. We can establish a connection between all site pages with taxonomies like categories and tags.
{{< /mnote >}}

## Documentation

```yaml {.left, linenos=true}
menu:
  doc:
    name: Navigation
    parent: page
    pre: switch_right
categories: [Layout]
tags: [Navigation]
weight: 640
```

```yaml {.left, linenos=true}
menu:
  doc:
    identifier: page
    name: Page Elements
    pre: dashboard_customize
weight: 600
```

### Sidebar

### Section Navigation

## Table of Contents

Perplex is prepared to style the ToC with entries for the three levels from 2 to 4. You can reduce the depth in the [markup configuration]({{< relref "markup.yaml#28" >}}).

{{< mnote up=8 >}}
Hugo is prepared to generate the HTML for the ToC from all heading levels.
{{< /mnote >}}