---
title: Author pages
description: Personal pages for authors or editors
subtitle: false
date: 2023-05-08 23:26:42+02:00
weight: 665
authors:
- Georg Makowski
- Test Author
categories:
- template
tags:
- author
- site
menu:
  doc:
    identifier: authors
    name: Authors
    parent: siteelem
    pre: person
resources:
- src: portrait.jpg
  name: portrait
  params:
    alt: Anonymous portrait
---

Every author or editor listed in the frontmatter field `authors` gets a personal page.
{.p-first}
<!--more-->

Every author page is initially auto-generated by Hugo and contains a list of the latest contributions at the bottom. To add personal content and images we need to create an explicit author page with a command in the project root like:

```sh {.left-in}
hugo new authors/your-name
```

This creates a new Markdown file with special frontmatter parameters in {$content/authors/your-name/_index.md}:

```yaml {.left-in}
---
title: Your Name
description: Short description
subtitle: true
date: 2023-11-24T10:04:40+01:00
resources:
- src: 
  name: portrait
  params:
    alt: Your Name
- src: 
  name: featured
  params:
    alt: Your Name
follow_icons:
- name: 
  icon: 
  url: 
contact_icons:
- name: 
  icon: 
  url: 
---
```

You add your name as the `title` and a short description of your role or profession to the parameter `description`.

The author page expects two images:
**1.** A quadratic `portrait` or avatar with a side length of at least {${{< width/column 1 >}}}. This image is cropped to fit into a circle and you may need to add some padding to the original. This portrait appears in all your postings and cards referencing them.
**2.** A `featured` image as usual.

You can add links to other sites or services that are symbolized by icons in a similar way as for the [main social menu][mainsocial].

The section `follow_icons` is meant for social networks, and the section `contact_icons`` for services that reach you personally.

Every list entry starts with a dash and expects three parameters:

`name`
: The name of the service.

`icon`
: The name for an icon of the open-source project [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org). You can find and pick every available icon on their page or add your own as described for the [main social menu][mainsocial].

`url`
: The link to the service.

[mainsocial]: /doc/site/navigation#simple-icons