content/doc/intro/hugo/index.md, before:

---
author: Georg Makowski
date: "2021-09-07T21:43:30+02:00"
description: The fastest static site engine
featImg: img/Logo_of_Hugo_the_static_website_generator.svg
menu:
  doc:
    name: Hugo
    parent: intro
    pre: engineering
subtitle: false
title: Hugo
weight: 15
---

The world's fastest static site engine is steadily gaining traction on its way to the first major release. **Hugo** provides a very reliable production environment and helps to build fast and secure websites.
{.p-lead} <!--more-->

[_Hugo_](https://gohugo.io) is a versatile monolithic command line tool for _macOS_, _Windows_, _Linux_ and _BSD_ derivatives. Binaries for these operating systems and some containers are usually available within a day or a few after every release.

{{< sidenote up=11 >}}
The [Hugo source](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo) can be compiled easily on every machine with a recent [Go environment](https://go.dev).
{{< /sidenote >}}

## Getting started

The [Hugo documentation site](https://gohugo.io/documentation/) addresses developers mostly and offers very detailed information. With a fully functional theme only a small amount of this knowledge is necessary to produce a professional static website.

### Install Hugo

Please read the [detailed installation instructions](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) for your operating system on the documentation site. _Perplex_ works with any recent version (≥ 0.92).

### Use Perplex

When you are just getting acquainted with _Hugo_ and _Markdown_ or when you are curious about the source for this site, you should download the project as an example. It’s available on _GitHub_ and ships with all the files for the documentation, the _Perplex_ theme and a few examples for blog postings and simple pages.

[^todo]: Include the link to the _Git_Hub repository.

#### This documentation project

The folders of the example site follow the Hugo convention for root directories.

```sh {.right .lh15 .hide-mobile}
├── archetypes
├── assets
├── config
├── content
├── themes
└── static
```

`archetypes`
: includes templates for creating new pages. Better don’t touch unless your confident.

`assets`
: is the place for site wide resources.

`config`
: contains the configuration files for the project.

`content`
: contains all the _Markdown_ files and page specific resources like images.

`static`
: _Hugo_ copies everything in this directory without processing to the root of the generated website.

`themes`
: contains the _Perplex_ theme.
{.dl-loose}

#### Start from scratch

When you are more familiar with _Hugo_, you start a new project with a command like

```sh {.left}
hugo new site mysite
```

This creates the directory `mysite` and a standard folder structure. Only a minimal set of template files without any styling is included in the layout folder. (TODO: delete it?) You don't need them, if you are using a theme.

There are three ways to retrieve this and other themes from [GitHub](https://github.com):

1. Download and unzip a compressed file package in the `themes` folder. This is the fastest way and the best option for starters.

2. Clone it with [_Git_](https://git-scm.com/) into the `themes` folder. _Git_ is _the_ version control system for collaborating on software projects.

3. Add the _Perplex_ repository as a Hugo module. You need to have a [Go](https://go.dev) environment, because _Hugo_ modules rely on _Go_  modules.  The Hugo docs provide a guide to this powerful [feature](https://gohugo.io/hugo-modules).

{{< sidenote up=11 >}}
As long as you don't use modules also for other parts of your project, this powerful and flexible feature may be over-complicated.
{{< /sidenote >}}

Whatever option you have chosen, you need to tell Hugo to use the theme in the [config file]({{< relref "configyaml.md#6" >}}).

## Run Hugo locally {#server-mode}

While working on a web project, we like to constantly watch the resulting pages. To render and serve an instant preview locally, we can run hugo in _server mode_ with the following command inside the root directory of the Hugo project:

```sh
hugo server -D --minify --navigateToChanged
```

{{< sidenote up=5 >}}
**Hugo’s server** can also show a preview under a configured URL. But it's **by no means** a full-fledged web server.
{{< /sidenote >}}

The pages are rendered into the computer memory and served from there, nothing gets written to the file system. The site is served under <http://localhost:1313>.

- The flag `-D` lets _Hugo_ include _drafted_ files. All files created with `hugo new` are usually configured as drafts, using `draft = true` in the front-matter. When a Markdown file is ready for publishing, we need to remove this entry or change it to `draft = false`.

- The flag `--minify` tells _Hugo_ to remove unnecessary whitespace from the resulting code.

- The flag `--navigateToChanged` tells the server to automatically relay the page from the last edited file to the browser.

### Adding the first Content {#first}

To generate new Markdown files inside the `content` folder, we use a command like

```sh {.left}
hugo new blog/my-first-post.md
```

The new file resides in the folder `content/blog/`. It contains a front matter section with reasonable entries or placeholders to start with.

`title` and `date` are mandatory, a `description` is strongly recommended for _Perplex_ as it is for many other themes.

```yaml {class="col-left" linenos=true}
+++
title = "My First Post"
description = "Description"
date = 2021-10-01T21:22:27+02:00
categories = []
tags = []
draft = true
+++
```

The title has been guessed from the file name and the date from the moment we ran the command.[^1]

The Markdown content begins after the front matter. As Markdown novice you don't need any formatting, because simple blocks of text are valid Markdown. When we save our work, Hugo will update our site in the browser. If we make a mistake, Hugo will display a descriptive error message on its console and in the browser.

[^1]: The templates for new files reside in the folder `archetypes`.

### Example session {#example}

Show all the steps described above

{{< asciinema id=fFz7xPpWGOdRCcLXBdYTXqPXu rows=20 startAt=2  >}}

## Content organization

It may take a little while to get your head around _Hugo’s_ content folder structure. To keep the _general concept_ in mind did help me: _Hugo_ establishes a connection between the input  and the generated website, which is as short as possible. The folder structure determines the generated website structure in a similar way like _Markdown_ formatting determines the layout of our content.

The standard folders in the content directory of a _Perplex_ project are the content root itself `/` and the folders `doc`, `blog` and `article`. The theme provides layout templates for these page types. _Hugo_ applies the matching template automatically to every content file inside these directories and their subdirectories.

The root `/`
: contains top level pages, which should

`doc`
`blog`
`article`

### Single pages {#single}

We already created a new file [`blog/my-first-post.md`]({{< relref "#first" >}}). This is the simplest way to generate a new page.

#### Leaf Bundle

When we include resources like images into a page, we like to [retrieve them]({{< relref "#resources" >}}) easily. When we need some files only on a specific page, we can create a _leaf bundle_ like this:

```sh {.left}
hugo new blog/my-second-post/index.md
```

The file `index.md` is rendered again as a single page, but now we can move page-specific resources in the folder of the _leaf branch_ and access them directly via their filename.

{{< sidenote up=14 >}}
**Subdirectories** are possible. We can build only one single page with a leaf bundle, but there is no limit to the folder structure for resources.
{{< /sidenote >}}

#### Blog posts

When the number of blog entries rises, we need some structure. This is achieved with _taxonomies_, and Hugo's defaults are the usual _categories_ and _tags_. We can use them immediately, the front matter already includes the empty parameter keys:

{{< sidenote up=14 >}}
**New Taxonomies** may be defined in the configuration. Please read the corresponding [docs](https://gohugo.io/content-management/taxonomies#configure-taxonomies).
{{< /sidenote >}}

```yaml {class="col-left" linenos=true linenostart=5 }
categories:
tags:
```

When we add our taxonomies as a comma separated list inside the empty `[]`, Hugo will generate additional list pages for every taxonomy we introduced.

#### Documentation Pages

A larger documentation site needs a clear hierarchy, a sidebar navigation and a search engine (TODO!), to find pages as quickly as possible. And to read the documentation like a book, we need references to the next and the previous pages and also to . All these navigational elements are build from parameters in the front matter. When we create a new documentation page with

```sh {.left}
hugo new doc/demo/my-first-doc-page.md
```

we start with a front matter, that contains a few more entries than a blog post. The first 5 lines, that we already have seen, are left out:

```yaml {linenos=true linenostart=6 class=col-left}
weight = 100
[menu.doc]
  name = "My First Doc Page"
  identifier = 'my-first-doc-page'
  parent = ''
  pre = 'remove'
+++
```

The new parameter _weight_ is of general meaning for the order of all pages, the others are menu entries and are lined up under the `` section and are specifically creating the structure of the doc menu `[menu.doc]`.

`weight`
: lets a page fall deeper in the hierarchy, the higher it gets. Right now our new doc page has an entry at the bottom of the sidebar navigation, take a look.

`name`
: is the title of the menu entry. If the page title is very long, we can provide a short version to avoid a messy menu.

`identifier`
: is an internal name, that lets other pages refer to this one as their `parent`.

`parent`
: If this parameter contains the identifier of another page, the current page is a level beyond its parent in the menu. If there is no parent, the page gets a top level menu entry.

`pre`
: is used very specific by _Perplex_: It contains the identifier of a _Material Icon_ from _Google_. To change it, please visit their [website](http://fonts.google.com/icons). You can pick any icon there. Select it and copy the identifier from the icon font embedding section (It's usually the icon name written in lower letters and with underscores `_` instead of spaces).
{.dl-loose}

### List pages {#list}

Besides single pages we usually need list pages. They can show an overview of  the content of sections and provide some kind of introduction.

#### Branch Bundle

Because our new page is a demonstration, we like to file it in a special section. We create this demo section as a _branch bundle_ with the following command:

```sh {.left}
hugo new doc/demo/_index.md
```

The small difference between a _leaf bundle_ for a [single page]({{< relref "#single" >}}) and a _branch bundle_ is the leading underscore for the _Markdown_ master file. It's only `index.md` versus `_index.md` — but these two have a different purpose. A folder with a _leaf bundle_ collects material for _one_ page. A _branch bundle_ collects as many pages and may include as many other bundles as we need — there is no technical limit to the folder hierarchy. A branch bundle can act like a chapter, section or subsection. `_index.md` should contain general content about this section. The page for a _branch bundle_ usually also presents a list of selected content from every page in the branch.

To reflect this relationship in the menu, we need to set `parent = "demo"` in `my-first-doc-page` and Hugo rearranges the page structure and the menu alike.

### Page Bundles {#bundle}

[_Branch bundles_]({{< relref "#branch-bundle" >}}) and [_leaf bundles_]({{< relref "#leaf-bundle" >}}) are both _page bundles_. A _branch bundle_ for a list page may also include page resources.

{{< sidenote up=8 >}}
**No subdirectories** are accessible to retrieve page resources from `_index.md`. Resources need to be placed in the branch root. This limitation avoids confusion about the purpose of subfolders.
{{< /sidenote >}}

### Page Resources {#resources}

There are three options to store and retrieve resources (like images) for _Hugo_:

Page specific
: We can save them in the folder of a page bundle and access them there with the shortest possible path.

Site specific
: We save them most suitably in the `assets` folder and can use them on every page of our project. We may have to create a folder structure in `assets` to organize them.

Remote
: Resources may also be retrieved via URL or API. This powerful but complex feature has been introduced recently. No remote connectors ship with _Perplex_ at the moment.
{.dl-loose}

## Project configuration

All configuration options and their defaults are described in the [docs](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/configuration/). The examples therein are given for a _single configuration file_ like `config.yaml` in your project root directory.

The configuration for this _Perplex_ site is using the alternative option of a **configuration directory** named `config` with separate files for the sections. For the growing number of options this arrangement is much clearer. The top configuration file is called `config.yaml` the other ones are named like the section they contain — `markup.yaml` for example.

### Please note {.h-info .h-p}

The configuration files for sections don't include the section identifier anymore, because the name of the file _is_ the section identifier. When you adopt a configuration option from the Hugo docs, you may therefore need to remove the section identifier.

## Having trouble with _Hugo_?

When you encounter problems specific to _Hugo_, visit the [Hugo community](https://discourse.gohugo.io) for support. First, search the forum archive, because most likely your problem has already been solved by some very helpful and busy members there. When you really need to start a new topic, please read the guidelines _How to Request Help_ at the top of the site.

Commit message:

More contrast for text links

content/doc/intro/hugo/index.md, after:

---
author: Georg Makowski
date: "2021-09-07T21:43:30+02:00"
description: The fastest static site engine
featImg: img/Logo_of_Hugo_the_static_website_generator.svg
menu:
  doc:
    name: Hugo
    parent: intro
    pre: engineering
subtitle: false
title: Hugo
weight: 15
---

The world's fastest static site engine is steadily gaining traction on its way to the first major release. **Hugo** provides a very reliable production environment and helps to build fast and secure websites.
{.p-lead} <!--more-->

[_Hugo_](https://gohugo.io) is a versatile monolithic command line tool for _macOS_, _Windows_, _Linux_ and _BSD_ derivatives. Binaries for these operating systems and some containers are usually available within a day or a few after every release.

{{< sidenote up=11 >}}
The [Hugo source](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo) can be compiled on every machine with a recent [Go environment](https://go.dev).
{{< /sidenote >}}

## Getting started

The [Hugo documentation site](https://gohugo.io/documentation/) addresses developers mostly and offers very detailed information. With a fully functional theme only a small amount of this knowledge is necessary to produce a professional static website.

### Install Hugo

Please read the [detailed installation instructions](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) for your operating system on the documentation site. _Perplex_ works with any recent version.

### Use Perplex

When you are just getting acquainted with _Hugo_ and _Markdown_ or when you are curious about the source for this site, you should download the project as an example. It’s available on _GitHub_ and ships with all the files for the documentation, the _Perplex_ theme and a few examples for blog postings and simple pages.

[^todo]: Include the link to the _Git_Hub repository.

#### This documentation project

The folders of the example site follow the Hugo convention for root directories.

```sh {.right .lh15 .hide-mobile}
├── archetypes
├── assets
├── config
├── content
├── themes
└── static
```

`archetypes`
: includes templates for creating new pages. You better don’t touch them unless your confident.

`assets`
: is the place for site wide resources.

`config`
: contains the configuration files for the project.

`content`
: contains all the _Markdown_ files and page specific resources like images.

`static`
: _Hugo_ copies every directory and file in this folder without processing into the root of the generated website.

`themes`
: contains the _Perplex_ theme.
{.dl-loose}

#### Start from scratch

When you are more familiar with _Hugo_, you start a new project with a command like

```sh {.left}
hugo new site mysite
```

This creates the directory `mysite` and a standard folder structure. Only a minimal set of template files without any styling is included in the layout folder. (TODO: delete it?) You don't need them, if you are using a theme.

There are three ways to retrieve this and other themes from [GitHub](https://github.com):

1. Download and unzip a compressed file package in the `themes` folder. This is the fastest way and the best option for starters.

2. Clone it with [_Git_](https://git-scm.com/) into the `themes` folder. _Git_ is _the_ version control system for collaborating on software projects.

3. Import the _Perplex_ repository as a Hugo module. You need to have a recent [Go environment](https://go.dev), because _Hugo_ modules rely on _Go_  modules.  The Hugo docs provide a guide to this powerful [feature](https://gohugo.io/hugo-modules).

{{< sidenote up=11 >}}
As long as you don't use modules also for other parts of your project, this may be over-complicated.
{{< /sidenote >}}

Whatever option you choose, you need to tell Hugo to use the theme in the [config file]({{< relref "configyaml.md#6" >}}).

## Run Hugo locally {#server-mode}

While working on a web project, we like to constantly watch the resulting pages. To render and serve an instant preview locally, we can run hugo in _server mode_. Run the following command in the root of the Hugo project to run the server:

```sh
hugo server -D --minify --navigateToChanged
```

{{< sidenote up=5 >}}
**Hugo’s server** can also show a preview under a configured URL. But it's **by no means** a full-fledged web server.
{{< /sidenote >}}

The pages are rendered into the computer memory and the site is served under <http://localhost:1313>.

- The flag `-D` lets _Hugo_ include _drafted_ files. All files created with `hugo new` are usually configured as drafts, using `draft = true` in the front-matter. When a Markdown file is ready for publishing, we need to remove this entry or change it to `draft = false`.

- The flag `--minify` tells _Hugo_ to remove unnecessary whitespace from the resulting code.

- The flag `--navigateToChanged` tells the server to automatically relay the page from the last edited file to the browser.

### Adding the first Content {#first}

To generate new Markdown files inside the `content` folder, we use a command like

```sh {.left}
hugo new blog/my-first-post.md
```

The new file resides in the folder `content/blog/`. It contains a front matter section with reasonable entries or placeholders to start with.

`title` and `date` are mandatory, a `description` is strongly recommended for _Perplex_ as it is for many other themes.

```yaml {class="col-left" linenos=true}
+++
title = "My First Post"
description = "Description"
date = 2021-10-01T21:22:27+02:00
categories = []
tags = []
draft = true
+++
```

The title has been guessed from the file name and the date from the moment we ran the command.[^1]

The Markdown content begins after the front matter. Hugo will update our site in the browser. If we make a mistake, Hugo will display a descriptive error message on its console and in the browser.

[^1]: The templates for new files reside in the folder `archetypes`.

### Example session {#example}

Show all the steps described above

{{< asciinema id=fFz7xPpWGOdRCcLXBdYTXqPXu rows=20 startAt=2  >}}

## Content organization

It may take a little while to get your head around _Hugo’s_ content folder structure. To keep the _general concept_ in mind did help me: _Hugo_ establishes a connection between the input  and the generated website, which is as short as possible. The folder structure determines the generated website structure in a similar way like _Markdown_ formatting determines the layout of our content.

The standard folders in the content directory of a _Perplex_ project are the content root itself `/` and the folders `doc`, `blog` and `article`. The theme provides layout templates for these page types. _Hugo_ applies the matching template automatically to every content file inside these directories and their subdirectories.

The root `/`
: contains top level pages, which should

`doc`
`blog`
`article`

### Single pages {#single}

We already created a new file [`blog/my-first-post.md`]({{< relref "#first" >}}). This is the simplest way to generate a new page.

#### Leaf Bundle

When we include resources like images into a page, we like to [retrieve them]({{< relref "#resources" >}}) easily. When we need some files only on a specific page, we can create a _leaf bundle_ like this:

```sh {.left}
hugo new blog/my-second-post/index.md
```

The file `index.md` is rendered again as a single page, but now we can move page-specific resources in the folder of the _leaf branch_ and access them directly via their filename.

{{< sidenote up=14 >}}
**Subdirectories** are possible. We can build only one single page with a leaf bundle, but there is no limit to the folder structure for resources.
{{< /sidenote >}}

#### Blog posts

When the number of blog entries rises, we need some structure. This is achieved with _taxonomies_, and Hugo's defaults are the usual _categories_ and _tags_. We can use them immediately, the front matter already includes the empty parameter keys:

{{< sidenote up=14 >}}
**New Taxonomies** may be defined in the configuration. Please read the corresponding [docs](https://gohugo.io/content-management/taxonomies#configure-taxonomies).
{{< /sidenote >}}

```yaml {class="col-left" linenos=true linenostart=5 }
categories:
tags:
```

When we add our taxonomies as a comma separated list inside the empty `[]`, Hugo will generate additional list pages for every taxonomy we introduced.

#### Documentation Pages

A larger documentation site needs a clear hierarchy, a sidebar navigation and a search engine (TODO!), to find pages as quickly as possible. And to read the documentation like a book, we need references to the next and the previous pages and also to . All these navigational elements are build from parameters in the front matter. When we create a new documentation page with

```sh {.left}
hugo new doc/demo/my-first-doc-page.md
```

we start with a front matter, that contains a few more entries than a blog post. The first 5 lines, that we already have seen, are left out:

```yaml {linenos=true linenostart=6 class=col-left}
weight = 100
[menu.doc]
  name = "My First Doc Page"
  identifier = 'my-first-doc-page'
  parent = ''
  pre = 'remove'
+++
```

The new parameter _weight_ is of general meaning for the order of all pages, the others are menu entries and are lined up under the `` section and are specifically creating the structure of the doc menu `[menu.doc]`.

`weight`
: lets a page fall deeper in the hierarchy, the higher it gets. Right now our new doc page has an entry at the bottom of the sidebar navigation, take a look.

`name`
: is the title of the menu entry. If the page title is very long, we can provide a short version to avoid a messy menu.

`identifier`
: is an internal name, that lets other pages refer to this one as their `parent`.

`parent`
: If this parameter contains the identifier of another page, the current page is a level beyond its parent in the menu. If there is no parent, the page gets a top level menu entry.

`pre`
: is used very specific by _Perplex_: It contains the identifier of a _Material Icon_ from _Google_. To change it, please visit their [website](http://fonts.google.com/icons). You can pick any icon there. Select it and copy the identifier from the icon font embedding section (It's usually the icon name written in lower letters and with underscores `_` instead of spaces).
{.dl-loose}

### List pages {#list}

Besides single pages we usually need list pages. They can show an overview of  the content of sections and provide some kind of introduction.

#### Branch Bundle

Because our new page is a demonstration, we like to file it in a special section. We create this demo section as a _branch bundle_ with the following command:

```sh {.left}
hugo new doc/demo/_index.md
```

The small difference between a _leaf bundle_ for a [single page]({{< relref "#single" >}}) and a _branch bundle_ is the leading underscore for the _Markdown_ master file. It's only `index.md` versus `_index.md`. But they have a very different purpose. A folder with a _leaf bundle_ collects material for _one_ page. A _branch bundle_ collects as many pages and may include as many other bundles as we need — there is no technical limit to the depth of folder hierarchy. A branch bundle can act like a chapter, section or subsection. 

`_index.md` should contain general content about this section. The page for a _branch bundle_ usually also presents a list of selected content from every page in the branch.

{{< sidenote up=11 >}}
**No subdirectories** are accessible to retrieve resources in `_index.md`. All resources specific for the list page generated from `_index.md` at the root of the _branch bundle_ need also to be placed in the branch root. This limitation avoids confusion about the purpose of subfolders.
{{< /sidenote >}}

To reflect this relationship in the menu, we need to set `parent = "demo"` in `my-first-doc-page` and Hugo rearranges the page structure and the menu alike.

### Page Bundles {#bundle}

[_Branch bundles_]({{< relref "#branch-bundle" >}}) and [_leaf bundles_]({{< relref "#leaf-bundle" >}}) are both _page bundles_. A _branch bundle_ for a list page may also include page resources.

### Page Resources {#resources}

There are three options to store and retrieve resources (like images) for _Hugo_:

Page specific
: We can save them in the folder of a page bundle and access them there with the shortest possible path.

Site specific
: We save them most suitably in the `assets` folder and can use them on every page of our project. We may have to create a folder structure in `assets` to organize them.

Remote
: Resources may also be retrieved via URL or API. This powerful but complex feature has been introduced recently. No remote connectors ship with _Perplex_ at the moment.
{.dl-loose}

## Project configuration

All configuration options and their defaults are described in the [docs](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/configuration/). The examples therein are given for a _single configuration file_ like `config.yaml` in your project root directory.

The configuration for this _Perplex_ site is using the alternative option of a **configuration directory** named `config` with separate files for the sections. For the growing number of options this arrangement is much clearer. The top configuration file is called `config.yaml` the other ones are named like the section they contain — `markup.yaml` for example.

### Please note {.h-info .h-p}

The configuration files for sections don't include the section identifier anymore, because the name of the file _is_ the section identifier. When you adopt a configuration option from the Hugo docs, you may therefore need to remove the section identifier.

## Having trouble with _Hugo_?

When you encounter problems specific to _Hugo_, visit the [Hugo community](https://discourse.gohugo.io) for support. First, search the forum archive, because most likely your problem has already been solved by some very helpful and busy members there. When you really need to start a new topic, please read the guidelines _How to Request Help_ at the top of the site.
